Homework 4

Chapter 10
1. When designing for mobile devices, the designer needs to recognize what features are the most important to the user since these small devices have such a small screen size. The designer also needs to ensure buttons and link are obvious, since mobile devices don’t have the luxury of "mouse hover" to identify where are the buttons.
2. The GreenP Parking app has some obvious tradeoffs. For example, the home page is bare except with a form for "Location ID", and the whole menu is in a collapsible button. With only one layer of depth, the menu does a poor job at easing the user into a straightforward experience. A good way to improve this app would be to include some menu buttons at the bottom of the app with some useful categories, instead of every menu item hidden in one collapsible button.
3. I use my laptop for mostly everything. The only time I use my mobile device is for music or podcasts, games, and messaging. The only time there is some overlap is if I have to transfer some photos or videos I’ve taking on my phone to my laptop.
4. My favourite mobile app is Netflix since it is very similar to the desktop version and going back and forth between the two versions of the app is fluid. The mobile design has the same simplicity of the desktop version but it works very well and is not cluttered at all.
5. I purchased the game Bloons TD6 and it is a fun tower defence game, but the menu is very messy and quite convoluted. There are no words for the menu items; instead there are just circular buttons with art that all looks similar. So I often get confused as to which button is for my powers-ups, multiplayer, daily rewards, etc.
6. I prefer to text or email than to talk on the phone. I think this is a natural progression of our lives online. It seems that most people 25 or younger prefer this also. With the rise of Facebook messenger, Signal, Telegram, Instagram DM’s, and Twitter DM’s, it seems that most people who are involved in these spaces are messaging than talking on the phone.
7. An app I find delightful is a game called Dot Blocks. It is a simple Candy Crush type game with a simple interface, elegant colours, and cute music. The game itself is quite fun, however, if the interface wasn’t as appealing I doubt I would still be playing it.
8. The Discord app has a great tutorial to show you where everything is and how to use its basic features. After completing the tutorial, I was able to quickly join my friends’ server, chat to them, and share pictures and videos.
9. I asked my partner to use the GreenP Parking app I described in question 2. They were also confused at the landing page since there is just one field that says "Location ID". They were confused as to what this was referring to. "Can I register my vehicle first?" They queried. Upon discovering the entire 1-layer menu button on the top left, they froze and didn’t know what item to press in order to register their vehicle. After finding the register vehicle button, they were easily able to get it into the system and pay for parking (given you are near a GreenP parking station and can identify the proper "Location ID" to input into the app). I then asked my partner to try to change their name on the app. They went to the menu button which expanded every option. They clicked profile and was greeted with a prompt which read "Green P ID" and a string a numbers next to it with an Update button. Confused, and ignoring this strange page, they just tapped the Update button. Finally this led them to the Update Profile menu where they were able to input their personal information and change their name.
10. I used the SoundCloud app on both desktop and mobile. And the desktop version of the app is by far superior. The mobile version of the app doesn’t even allow for some of the same features. For example, on mobile there is no way to view your own profile, unless you have previously "liked" one of your own tracks. If so, then you are able navigate to your liked songs and then select your song from the list of liked songs. Then finally, while listening to the song you can tap on the artist’s name (in this case, your name) and it will bring you to your profile. The mobile app is annoying and counterintuitive.

Chapter 11
1. The things that annoy me most are when apps or sites ask or require information that they don’t need. For example, if I want to download the latest driver for my audio interface, why does the site require my email, postal code, and address?  Another thing that annoys me is when an app or site puts tons of ads between me and the content I want. Lots of free mobile apps have this, where you will play a game or view an article and then after each round or page, they throw up a full page ad with a tiny X button hidden in one of the corners. This type of advertising makes me less likely to use the app or site in the future.
2. One of the free mobile games I enjoy has full page ads after the end of each round (as described above) and it is the most annoying thing in the world. Not only is there sound playing full volume, but I often have to wait 15-30 seconds until a small X button finally appears in one of the corners of the screen. This is clearly a business decision by the developers in order to guarantee the advertisers that their ads will be seen.
3. I agree with Krug that sometimes there is a tradeoff between annoying your users and doing what’s best for the business. As long as things aren’t getting too out of hand, I think that some small things like pop-up ads should be acceptable. At the end of the day, most of these apps and sites are designed to make money in order to keep the developers and staff employed.
4. When a site asks if I would like to give feedback, this increases my goodwill since this tells me that the developers really care about their customers’ experiences and want to find ways to improve. If their users didn’t have a good experience, they would likely find a way to give feedback anyways, so they might as well include a feedback option within the site.
5. When a site asks if I want to download the mobile version of the app, I usually decline. This is because I like to have my mobile device organized and only keep the apps that I use regularly. So if I don’t plan on using the app regularly then I will decline and continue to use the site version.
6. An app that increased by goodwill is the UberEats mobile app. Not only does it behave exactly like what you’d expect, but it lists all the prices of food items and doesn’t hide fees or costs. It is also delightful to use since it is easy to find what you’re looking for and easy to order food.
7. .
8. The Starbucks mobile app saves me lots of time! Instead of waiting in line to get my morning coffee, I’m able to order ahead and then skip the line and pick it up.
9. levittllp.com. This is a site for a law firm that looks quite unprofessional. It looks more like a site for a sleek new clothing brand than for professional lawyers. I would change the bright colours on the home page to be something more straight forward, 2 or 3 colours at most and definitely not bright neon colours. I would also change the font to be something more formal, and change the picture of them on the front page.
10. I chose to try to apply for the Bootcamp, so I scanned the menu bar and chose For Students then clicked Bootcamp & Fundamentals and I was immediately shown the application form I was after. This increased my goodwill. I then wanted to see how much tuition costs. Without immediately knowing which menu tap to select, I hovered over the options and noticed that when hovered over Programs, a secret looking menu appears on the left that says Quick Links. And under Quick Links, there was a link to Tuition & Fees. This decreased my goodwill, because instead of Quick Links or Tuition being out in the open and easy to find, it felt like it was hidden and that I stumbled on it by chance.

